# UK-census-2011-Analysis
Analysis of economic activity based on data from the UK census 2011

# Introduction
The socioeconomic status of individuals encompasses not only the income but also the educational 
achievements and personal insights of social status. This study investigates the diversity of various
cultures based on Ethnicity, Country of birth, Religion and Passport region of economically active 
individuals across England and Wales. The task is performed through interactive visual representations
in tableau and python

# Data Preparation
Census 2011 for England and Wales is an extensive database containing enormous data about the 
socioeconomic status of individuals. For data preparation, out of 1600 tables, four were selected based 
on the economic status. These four tables included different socioeconomic categories for economically 
active and inactive individuals across 105 postcode areas.

# Tableau Dashbords 
Four dashboards in the tableau were created to explore various aspects that affect the socioeconomic 
status of individuals across England and Wales.

## Diversity exploration of economically active individuals in the UK postcode areas
Under this dashboard, the aim is to find locations with the count of economically active 
individuals based on all four categories. According to these categories, the plots should show 
the top three areas with the highest count for each category

##  Overview of features for locations and outlier detection.
This dashboard compares different categories against each other to find outliers, linear
relationship or clusters of multiple locations with similar properties. Moreover, the plots also 
aim to give an overview of various categories and any visible correlation between them.

##  Correlation between levels for each categorical key
The plots in this dashboard aim to find any correlation between various levels within the 
categories

## Dimensionality reduction of selective features for economically active individuals

The plots in this dashboard are generated by selected levels from three key categories after applying dimentioanality reduction. The desired components were two. To cluster the 105 postcode areas, GMM was used.

| Country of Birth     | Ethnic Group                          | Passport             |
| -------------------- |:-------------------------------------:| --------------------:|
| Africa               | African/Black/Caribbean/Black British | Africa               |
| Europe               | White                                 | Europe               |
| Middle East and Asia | Asian                                 | Middle East and Asia |
